This lecture is a summary of this course.
Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12
This map shows the major topics we have covered in this course.
Play video starting at ::19 and follow transcript0:19
And here are some key high-level take-away messages. First, we talked about natural language content analysis.
Play video starting at ::29 and follow transcript0:29
Here the main take-away messages is natural language processing is a foundation for text retrieval, but currently the NLP isn't robust enough so the battle of wars is generally the main method used in modern search engines. And it's often sufficient before most of the search tasks, but obviously for more complex search tasks then we need a deeper natural language processing techniques. We then talked about the high level strategies for text access and we talked about push versus pull. In pull we talked about querying versus browsing.
Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13
Now in general in future search engines, we should integrate all these techniques to provide a math involved information access.
Play video starting at :1:23 and follow transcript1:23
And now we'll talk about a number of issues related to search engines. We talked about the search problem. And we framed that as a ranking problem.
Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34
And we talked about a number of retrieval methods. We start with the overview of vector space model and the probabilistic model and then we talked about the vector space model in depth.
Play video starting at :1:48 and follow transcript1:48
We also later talked about the language modeling approach, and that's probabilistic model. And here, many take-away message is that the modeling retrieval function tend to look similar, and they generally use various heuristics. Most important ones are TF-IDF weighting, document length normalization. And the TF is often transformed through a sub media transformation function.
Play video starting at :2:22 and follow transcript2:22
And then we talked about how to implement a retrieval system, and here, the main techniques that we talked about, how to construct an inverted index so that we can prepare the system to answer a query quickly. And we talked about how to do a faster search by using the inverted index.
Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript2:46
And we then talked about how to evaluate the text retrieval system, mainly introduced to the Cranfield Evaluation Methodology. This was a very important evaluation methodology that can be applied to many tasks.
Play video starting at :3:1 and follow transcript3:01
We talked about the major evaluation measures. So, the most important measures for a search engine are MAP, mean average precision, and nDCG Summarize the discount or accumulative gain and also precision and recall are the two basic measures.
Play video starting at :3:22 and follow transcript3:22
And we then talked about feedback techniques. And we talked about the Rocchio in the Vector Space Model and the mixture model and the language modeling approach. Feedback is a very important technique especially considering the opportunity of learning from a lot of pixels on the Web.
Play video starting at :3:42 and follow transcript3:42
We then talked about Web search. And here we talked about how to use parallel in that scene to solve the scalability issue in that scene we're going to use the net reduce. Then we talked about how to use linking permission model app to improve search. We talked about page rank and hits as the major hours is to analyzing links on the Web.
Play video starting at :4:7 and follow transcript4:07
We then talked about learning through rank. This is the use of machine learning to combine multiple features for improvement scoring. Not only that the effectiveness can be improved in using this approach, but we can also improve the robustness of the. The ranking function so that it's not easy to expand a search engine. It just some features to promote the page.
Play video starting at :4:36 and follow transcript4:36
And finally we talked about the future of Web search.
Play video starting at :4:40 and follow transcript4:40
About the some major reactions that we might to see in the future in improving the count of regeneration of such engines.
Play video starting at :4:50 and follow transcript4:50
And then finally we talked about the recommended systems and, these are systems to increment the push mode. And we'll talk about the two approaches, one is content-based, one is collaborative filtering and they can be combined together.
Play video starting at :5:7 and follow transcript5:07
Now, an obvious missing piece in this picture is the user, so user interface is also an important component in any search engine. Even though the current search interface is relatively simple they actually have done a lot of studies of user interfaces where we do visualization for example. And this is the topic to that, you can learn more by reading this book. It's an excellent book about all kinds of studies of search using the face.
Play video starting at :5:48 and follow transcript5:48
If you want to know more about the topics that we talked about, you can also read some additional readings that are listed here. In this short course we only manage to cover some basic topics in text retrievals and search engines.
Play video starting at :6:4 and follow transcript6:04
And these resources provide additional information about more advanced topics and they give a more thorough treatment of some of the topics that we talked about. And a main source is the Synthesis Digital Library
Play video starting at :6:21 and follow transcript6:21
that you can see a lot of short to textbook or textbooks, or long tutorials. They tend to provide a lot of information to explain a topic. And there a lot of series that are related to this cause. One is information concepts, retrieval, and services. One is human langauge technology. And yet another is artificial intelligence and machine learning. There are also some major journals and conferences listed here that tend to have a lot of research papers we need to and topic of this course. And finally, for more information about resources Including readings, tool kits, etc you can check out his URL.
Play video starting at :7:10 and follow transcript7:10
So, if you have not taken the text mining course in this data mining specialization series then naturally the next step is to take that course. As this picture shows, to mine big text data, we generally need two kinds of techniques. One is text retrieval, which is covered in this course. And these techniques will help us convert raw big text data into small relevant text data, which are actually needed in the specific application. Now human plays important role in mining any text data because text data is written for humans to consume. So involving humans in the process of data mining is very important and in this course we have covered the various strategies to help users get access to the most relevant data. These techniques are always so essential in any text mining system to help provide prominence and to help users interpret the inner patterns that the user will define through text data mining. So, in general, the user would have to go back to the original data to better understand the patterns.
Play video starting at :8:30 and follow transcript8:30
So the text mining cause, or rather, text mining and analytics course will be dealing with what to do once the user has a following information. So this is a second step in this picture where we would convert the text data into actionable knowledge.
Play video starting at :8:49 and follow transcript8:49
And this has to do with helping users to further digest the found information or to find the patterns and to reveal knowledge. In text and such knowledge can then be used in application systems to help decision making or to help a user finish a task. So, if you have not taken that course, the natural step and that natural next step would be to take that course.
Play video starting at :9:24 and follow transcript9:24
Thank you for taking this course. I hope you had fun and found this course to be useful to you. And I look forward to interacting with you at a future opportunity. [MUSIC]