This lecture is about a specific technique for Contextual Text Mining called Contextual Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis.
Play video starting at ::19 and follow transcript0:19
In this lecture, we're going to continue discussing Contextual Text Mining. And we're going to introduce Contextual Probablitistic Latent Semantic Analysis as exchanging of POS for doing contextual text mining.
Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34
Recall that in contextual text mining we hope to analyze topics in text, in consideration of the context so that we can associate the topics with a property of the context were interesting.
Play video starting at ::48 and follow transcript0:48
So in this approach, contextual probabilistic latent semantic analysis, or CPLSA, the main idea is to express to the add interesting context variables into a generating model.
Play video starting at :1:3 and follow transcript1:03
Recall that before when we generate the text we generally assume we'll start wIth some topics, and then assemble words from some topics. But here, we're going to add context variables, so that the coverage of topics, and also the content of topics would be tied in context. Or in other words, we're going to let the context Influence both coverage and the content of a topic.
Play video starting at :1:31 and follow transcript1:31
The consequences that this will enable us to discover contextualized topics. Make the topics more interesting, more meaningful. Because we can then have topics that can be interpreted as specifically to a particular context that we are interested in. For example, a particular time period.
Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52
As an extension of PLSA model, CPLSA does the following changes. Firstly it would model the conditional likelihood of text given context.
Play video starting at :2:7 and follow transcript2:07
That clearly suggests that the generation of text would then depend on context, and that allows us to bring context into the generative model.
Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18
Secondly, it makes two specific assumptions about the dependency of topics on context. One is to assume that depending on the context, depending on different time periods or different locations, we assume that there are different views of a topic or different versions of word descriptions that characterize a topic.
Play video starting at :2:38 and follow transcript2:38
And this assumption allows us to discover different variations of the same topic in different contexts.
Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript2:46
The other is that we assume the topic coverage also depends on the context.
Play video starting at :2:55 and follow transcript2:55
That means depending on the time or location, we might cover topics differently.
Play video starting at :3: and follow transcript3:00
Again, this dependency would then allow us to capture the association of topics with specific contexts. We can still use the EM algorithm to solve the problem of parameter estimation.
Play video starting at :3:16 and follow transcript3:16
And in this case, the estimated parameters would naturally contain context variables. And in particular, a lot of conditional probabilities of topics given certain context. And this is what allows you to do contextual text mining. So this is the basic idea.
Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35
Now, we don't have time to introduce this model in detail, but there are references here that you can look into to know more detail. Here I just want to explain the high level ideas in more detail. Particularly I want to explain the generation process. Of text data that has context associated in such a model.
Play video starting at :4:1 and follow transcript4:01
So as you see here, we can assume there are still multiple topics. For example, some topics might represent a themes like a government response, donation Or the city of New Orleans. Now this example is in the context of Hurricane Katrina and that hit New Orleans.
Play video starting at :4:22 and follow transcript4:22
Now as you can see we assume there are different views associated with each of the topics. And these are shown as View 1, View 2, View 3. Each view is a different version of word distributions. And these views are tied to some context variables. For example, tied to the location Texas, or the time July 2005, or the occupation of the author being a sociologist.
Play video starting at :4:56 and follow transcript4:56
Now, on the right side, now we assume the document has context information. So the time is known to be July 2005. The location is Texas, etc. And such context information is what we hope to model as well. So we're not going to just model the text.
Play video starting at :5:15 and follow transcript5:15
And so one idea here is to model the variations of top content and various content. And this gives us different views of the water distributions.
Play video starting at :5:27 and follow transcript5:27
Now on the bottom you will see the theme coverage of top Coverage might also vary according to these context because in the case of a location like Texas, people might want to cover the red topics more. That's New Orleans. That's visualized here. But in a certain time period, maybe Particular topic and will be covered more. So this variation is also considered in CPLSA. So to generate the searcher document With context, with first also choose a view.
Play video starting at :6:8 and follow transcript6:08
And this view of course now could be from any of these contexts. Let's say, we have taken this view that depends on the time. In the middle. So now, we will have a specific version of word distributions. Now, you can see some probabilities of words for each topic.
Play video starting at :6:26 and follow transcript6:26
Now, once we have chosen a view, now the situation will be very similar to what happened in standard ((PRSA)) We assume we have got word distribution associated with each topic, right?
Play video starting at :6:39 and follow transcript6:39
And then next, we will also choose a coverage from the bottom, so we're going to choose a particular coverage, and that coverage, before is fixed in PLSA, and assigned to a particular document. Each document has just one coverage distribution.
Play video starting at :6:58 and follow transcript6:58
Now here, because we consider context, so the distribution of topics or the coverage of Topics can vary depending on the context that has influenced the coverage.
Play video starting at :7:10 and follow transcript7:10
So, for example, we might pick a particular coverage. Let's say in this case we picked a document specific coverage.
Play video starting at :7:20 and follow transcript7:20
Now with the coverage and these word distributions we can generate a document in exactly the same way as in PLSA. So what it means, we're going to use the coverage to choose a topic, to choose one of these three topics. Let's say we have picked the yellow topic. Then we'll draw a word from this particular topic on the top.
Play video starting at :7:44 and follow transcript7:44
Okay, so we might get a word like government. And then next time we might choose a different topic, and we'll get donate, etc. Until we generate all the words. And this is basically the same process as in PLSA.
Play video starting at :8: and follow transcript8:00
So the main difference is when we obtain the coverage. And the word distribution, we let the context influence our choice So in other words we have extra switches that are tied to these contacts that will control the choices of different views of topics and the choices of coverage.
Play video starting at :8:22 and follow transcript8:22
And naturally the model we have more parameters to estimate. But once we can estimate those parameters that involve the context, then we will be able to understand the context specific views of topics, or context specific coverages of topics. And this is precisely what we want in contextual text mining.
Play video starting at :8:40 and follow transcript8:40
So here are some simple results. From using such a model. Not necessary exactly the same model, but similar models. So on this slide you see some sample results of comparing news articles about Iraq War and Afghanistan War.
Play video starting at :8:56 and follow transcript8:56
Now we have about 30 articles on Iraq wa,r and 26 articles on Afghanistan war. And in this case, the goal is to review the common topic. It's covered in both sets of articles and the differences of variations of the topic in each of the two collections.
Play video starting at :9:18 and follow transcript9:18
So in this case the context is explicitly specified by the topic or collection.
Play video starting at :9:25 and follow transcript9:25
And we see the results here show that there is a common theme that's corresponding to Cluster 1 here in this column. And there is a common theme indicting that United Nations is involved in both Wars. It's a common topic covered in both sets of articles. And that's indicated by the high probability words shown here, united and nations.
Play video starting at :9:51 and follow transcript9:51
Now if you know the background, of course this is not surprising and this topic is indeed very relevant to both wars. If you look at the column further and then what's interesting's that the next two cells of word distributions actually tell us collection specific variations of the topic of United Nations. So it indicates that the Iraq War, United Nations was more involved in weapons factions, whereas in the Afghanistan War it was more involved in maybe aid to Northern Alliance. It's a different variation of the topic of United Nations.
Play video starting at :10:30 and follow transcript10:30
So this shows that by bringing the context. In this case different the walls or different the collection of texts. We can have topical variations tied to these contexts, to review the differences of coverage of the United Nations in the two wars.
Play video starting at :10:46 and follow transcript10:46
Now similarly if you look at the second cluster Class two, it has to do with the killing of people, and, again, it's not surprising if you know the background about wars. All the wars involve killing of people, but imagine if you are not familiar with the text collections. We have a lot of text articles, and such a technique can reveal the common topics covered in both sets of articles. It can be used to review common topics in multiple sets of articles as well. If you look at of course in that column of cluster two, you see variations of killing of people and that corresponds to different contexts
Play video starting at :11:28 and follow transcript11:28
And here is another example of results obtained from blog articles about Hurricane Katrina.
Play video starting at :11:37 and follow transcript11:37
In this case, what you see here is visualization of the trends of topics over time.
Play video starting at :11:47 and follow transcript11:47
And the top one shows just the temporal trends of two topics. One is oil price, and one is about the flooding of the city of New Orleans.
Play video starting at :12: and follow transcript12:00
Now these topics are obtained from blog articles about Hurricane Katrina.
Play video starting at :12:7 and follow transcript12:07
And people talk about these topics. And end up teaching to some other topics. But the visualisation shows that with this technique, we can have conditional distribution of time. Given a topic. So this allows us to plot this conditional probability the curve is like what you're seeing here. We see that, initially, the two curves tracked each other very well. But later we see the topic of New Orleans was mentioned again but oil price was not. And this turns out to be the time period when another hurricane, hurricane Rita hit the region. And that apparently triggered more discussion about the flooding of the city.
Play video starting at :12:54 and follow transcript12:54
The bottom curve shows the coverage of this topic about flooding of the city by block articles in different locations. And it also shows some shift of coverage that might be related to people's migrating from the state of Louisiana to Texas for example.
Play video starting at :13:20 and follow transcript13:20
So in this case we can see the time can be used as context to review trends of topics.
Play video starting at :13:27 and follow transcript13:27
These are some additional results on spacial patterns. In this case it was about the topic of government response. And there was some criticism about the slow response of government in the case of Hurricane Katrina.
Play video starting at :13:44 and follow transcript13:44
And the discussion now is covered in different locations. And these visualizations show the coverage in different weeks of the event. And initially it's covered mostly in the victim states, in the South, but then gradually spread into other locations. But in week four, which is shown on the bottom left, we see a pattern that's very similar to the first week on the top left. And that's when again Hurricane Rita hit in the region. So such a technique would allow us to use location as context to examine their issues of topics. And of course the moral is completely general so you can apply this to any other connections of text. To review spatial temporal patterns.
Play video starting at :14:34 and follow transcript14:34
His view found another application of this kind of model, where we look at the use of the model for event impact analysis.
Play video starting at :14:43 and follow transcript14:43
So here we're looking at the research articles information retrieval. IR, particularly SIGIR papers. And the topic we are focusing on is about the retrieval models. And you can see the top words with high probability about this model on the left.
Play video starting at :14:59 and follow transcript14:59
And then we hope to examine the impact of two events. One is a start of TREC, for Text and Retrieval Conference. This is a major evaluation sponsored by U.S. government, and was launched in 1992 or around that time. And that is known to have made a impact on the topics of research information retrieval.
Play video starting at :15:23 and follow transcript15:23
The other is the publication of a seminal paper, by Croft and Porte. This is about a language model approach to information retrieval. It's also known to have made a high impact on information retrieval research. So we hope to use this kind of model to understand impact. The idea here is simply to use the time as context. And use these events to divide the time periods into a period before. For the event and another after this event. And then we can compare the differences of the topics. The and the variations, etc. So in this case, the results show before track the study of retrieval models was mostly a vector space model, Boolean model etc. But the after Trec, apparently the study of retrieval models have involved a lot of other words. That seems to suggest some different retrieval tasks, so for example, email was used in the enterprise search tasks and subtopical retrieval was another task later introduced by Trec.
Play video starting at :16:28 and follow transcript16:28
On the bottom, we see the variations that are correlated with the propagation of the language model paper. Before, we have those classic probability risk model, logic model, Boolean etc., but after 1998, we see clear dominance of language model as probabilistic models. And we see words like language model, estimation of parameters, etc. So this technique here can use events as context to understand the impact of event. Again the technique is generals so you can use this to analyze the impact of any event. Here are some suggested readings.
Play video starting at :17:11 and follow transcript17:11
The first is paper about simple staging of psi to label cross-collection comparison.
Play video starting at :17:21 and follow transcript17:21
It's to perform comparative text mining to allow us to extract common topics shared by multiple collections. And there are variations in each collection.
Play video starting at :17:31 and follow transcript17:31
The second one is the main paper about the CPLSA model. Was a discussion of a lot of applications. The third one has a lot of details about the special temporal patterns for the Hurricane Katrina example. 